<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Bottom Level</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-3" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Bottom Level</h2>
			<p>It didn’t take long to get Murell’s luggage assembled. There was surprisingly little of it, and nothing that looked like photographic or recording equipment. When he returned from a final gathering-up in his stateroom, I noticed that he was bulging under his jacket, too, on the left side at the waist. About enough for an 8.5 <abbr>mm</abbr> pocket automatic. Evidently he had been briefed on the law-and-order situation in Port Sandor.</p>
			<p>Normally, we’d have gone off onto the Main City Level, but Tom’s jeep was down on the Bottom Level, and he made no suggestion that we go off and wait for him to bring it up. I didn’t suggest it, either. After all, it was his jeep, and he wasn’t our hired pilot. Besides, I was beginning to get curious. An abnormally large bump of curiosity is part of every newsman’s basic equipment.</p>
			<p>We borrowed a small handling-lifter and one of the spaceport roustabouts to tow it for us, loaded Murell’s luggage and my things onto it, and started down to the bottomside cargo hatches, from which the ship was discharging. There was no cargo at all to go aboard, except mail and things like Adolf Lautier’s old film and music tapes. Our only export is tallow-wax, and it all goes to Terra. It would be picked up by the Cape <i>Canaveral</i> when she got in from Odin five hundred hours from now. But except for a few luxury items from Odin, everything we import comes from Terra, and the <i>Peenemünde</i> had started discharging that already. We rode down on a contragravity skid loaded with ammunition. I saw Murell looking curiously at the square cases, marked <b>terran federation armed forces</b>, and <b>50 <abbr>mm</abbr>, mk. 608, antivehicle and antipersonnel, 25 rounds</b>, and <b>overage. practice only. not to be issued for service</b>, and <b>inspected and condemned</b>. The hunters bought that stuff through the Coop. It cost half as much as new ammo, but that didn’t help them any. The difference stopped with Steve Ravick. Murell didn’t comment, and neither did Tom or I.</p>
			<p>We got off at the bottom of the pit, a thousand feet below the promenade from which I had come aboard, and stopped for a moment. Murell was looking about the great amphitheater in amazement.</p>
			<p>“I knew this spaceport would be big when I found out that the ship landed directly on the planet,” he said, “but I never expected anything like this. And this serves a population of twenty thousand?”</p>
			<p>“Twenty-four thousand, seven hundred and eight, if the man who got pounded in a barroom fight around 1330 hasn’t died yet,” I said. “But you have to remember that this place was built close to a hundred years ago, when the population was ten times that much.” I’d gotten my story from him; now it was his turn to interview me. “You know something about the history of Fenris, I suppose?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. There are ample sources for it on Terra, up to the collapse of the Fenris Company,” he said. “Too much isn’t known about what’s been happening here since, which is why I decided to do this book.”</p>
			<p>“Well, there were several cities built, over on the mainland,” I told him. “They’re all abandoned now. The first one was a conventional city, the buildings all on the surface. After one day-and-night cycle, they found that it was uninhabitable. It was left unfinished. Then they started digging in. The Chartered Fenris Company shipped in huge quantities of mining and earth-moving equipment⁠—that put the company in the red more than anything else⁠—and they began making burrow-cities, like the ones built in the Northern Hemisphere of Terra during the Third and Fourth World Wars, or like the cities on Luna and Mercury Twilight Zone and Titan. There are a lot of valuable mineral deposits over on the mainland; maybe in another century our grandchildren will start working them again.</p>
			<p>“But about six years before the Fenris Company went to pieces, they decided to concentrate in one city, here in the archipelago. The sea water stays cooler in the daytime and doesn’t lose heat so rapidly in the nighttime. So they built Port Sandor, here on Oakleaf Island.”</p>
			<p>“And for convenience in monster-hunting?”</p>
			<p>I shook my head. “No. The Jarvis’s sea-monster wasn’t discovered until after the city was built, and it was years after the company had gone bankrupt before anybody found out about what tallow-wax was good for.”</p>
			<p>I started telling him about the native life-forms of Fenris. Because of the surface temperature extremes, the marine life is the most highly developed. The land animals are active during the periods after sunset and after sunrise; when it begins getting colder or hotter, they burrow, or crawl into caves and crevices among the rocks, and go into suspended animation. I found that he’d read up on that, and not too much of his information was incorrect.</p>
			<p>He seemed to think, though, that Port Sandor had also been mined out below the surface. I set him right on that.</p>
			<p>“You saw what it looked like when you were coming down,” I said. “Just a flat plateau, with a few shaft-head domes here and there, and the landing pit of the spaceport. Well, originally it was a valley, between two low hills. The city was built in the valley, level by level, and then the tops of the hills were dug off and bulldozed down on top of it. We have a lot of film at the public library of the construction of the city, step by step. As far as I know, there are no copies anywhere off-planet.”</p>
			<p>He should have gotten excited about that, and wanted to see them. Instead, he was watching the cargo come off⁠—foodstuffs, now⁠—and wanted to know if we had to import everything we needed.</p>
			<p>“Oh, no. We’re going in on the Bottom Level, which is mainly storage, but we have hydroponic farms for our vegetables and <i>carniculture</i> plants for meat on the Second and Third Levels. That’s counting down from the Main City Level. We make our own lumber, out of reeds harvested in the swamps after sunrise and converted to pulpwood, and we get some good hardwood from the native trees which only grow in four periods of two hundred hours a year. We only use that for furniture, gunstocks, that sort of thing. And there are a couple of mining camps and smelters on the mainland; they employ about a thousand of our people. But every millisol that’s spent on this planet is gotten from the sale of tallow-wax, at second or third hand if not directly.”</p>
			<p>That seemed to interest him more. Maybe his book, if he was really writing one, was going to be an economic study of Fenris. Or maybe his racket, whatever it was, would be based on something connected with our local production. I went on telling him about our hydroponic farms, and the carniculture plant where any kind of animal tissue we wanted was grown⁠—Terran pork and beef and poultry, Freyan <i xml:lang="x-alien">zhoumy</i> meat, Zarathustran <i xml:lang="x-alien">veldtbeest</i>.⁠ ⁠… He knew, already, that none of the native life-forms, animal or vegetable, were edible by Terrans.</p>
			<p>“You can get all the <i xml:lang="fr">paté de foie gras</i> you want here,” I said. “We have a chunk of goose liver about fifty feet in diameter growing in one of our vats.”</p>
			<p>By this time, we’d gotten across the bottom of the pit, Murell’s luggage and my equipment being towed after us, and had entered the Bottom Level. It was cool and pleasant here, lighted from the ceiling fifty feet overhead, among the great column bases, two hundred feet square and two hundred yards apart, that supported the upper city and the thick roof of rock and earth that insulated it. The area we were entering was stacked with tallow-wax waiting to be loaded onto the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Cape Canaveral</i> when she came in; it was vacuum-packed in plastic skins, like big half-ton Bologna sausages, each one painted with the blue and white emblem of the Hunters’ Cooperative. He was quite interested in that, and was figuring, mentally, how much wax there was here and how much it was worth.</p>
			<p>“Who does this belong to?” he wanted to know. “The Hunters’ Cooperative?”</p>
			<p>Tom had been letting me do the talking up to now, but he answered that question, very emphatically.</p>
			<p>“No, it doesn’t. It belongs to the hunters,” he said. “Each ship crew owns the wax they bring in in common, and it’s sold for them by the Coop. When the captain gets paid for the wax he’s turned over to the Coop, he divides the money among the crew. But every scrap of this belongs to the ships that took it, up till it’s bought and paid for by Kapstaad Chemical.”</p>
			<p>“Well, if a captain wants his wax back, after it’s been turned over for sale to the Coop, can he get it?” Murell asked.</p>
			<p>“Absolutely!”</p>
			<p>Murell nodded, and we went on. The roustabout who had been following us with the lifter had stopped to chat with a couple of his fellows. We went on slowly, and now and then a vehicle, usually a lorry, would pass above us. Then I saw Bish Ware, ahead, sitting on a sausage of wax, talking to one of the Spaceport Police. They were both smoking, but that was all right. Tallow-wax will burn, and a wax fire is something to get really excited about, but the ignition point is 750°⁠<abbr class="temperature">C</abbr>., and that’s a lot hotter than the end of anybody’s cigar. He must have come out the same way we did, and I added that to the “wonder-why” file. Pretty soon, I’d have so many questions to wonder about that they’d start answering each other. He saw us and waved to us, and then suddenly the spaceport cop’s face got as white as my shirt and he grabbed Bish by the arm. Bish didn’t change color; he just shook off the cop’s hand, got to his feet, dropped his cigar, and took a side skip out into the aisle.</p>
			<p>“Murell!” he yelled. “Freeze! On your life; don’t move a muscle!”</p>
			<p>Then there was a gun going off in his hand. I didn’t see him reach for it, or where he drew it from. It was just in his hand, firing, and the empty brass flew up and came down on the concrete with a jingle on the heels of the report. We had all stopped short, and the roustabout who was towing the lifter came hurrying up. Murell simply stood gaping at Bish.</p>
			<p>“All right,” Bish said, slipping his gun back into a shoulder holster under his coat. “Step carefully to your left. Don’t move right at all.”</p>
			<p>Murell, still in a sort of trance, obeyed. As he did I looked past his right shin and saw what Bish had been shooting at. It was an irregular gray oval, about sixteen inches by four at its widest and tapering up in front to a cone about six inches high, into which a rodlike member, darker gray, was slowly collapsing and dribbling oily yellow stuff. The bullet had gone clear through and made a mess of dirty gray and black and green body fluids on the concrete.</p>
			<p>It was what we call a tread-snail, because it moves on a double row of pads like stumpy feet and leaves a trail like a tractor. The fishpole-aerial thing it had erected out of its head was its stinger, and the yellow stuff was venom. A tenth of a milligram of it in your blood and it’s “Get the Gate open, <abbr>St.</abbr> Peter; here I come.”</p>
			<p>Tom saw it as soon as I did. His face got the same color as the cop’s. I don’t suppose mine looked any better. When Murell saw what had been buddying up to him, I will swear, on a warehouse full of Bibles, Korans, Torah scrolls, Satanist grimoires, Buddhist prayer wheels and Thoran Grandfather-God images, that his hair literally stood on end. I’ve heard that expression all my life; well, this time I really saw it happen. I mentioned that he seemed to have been reading up on the local fauna.</p>
			<p>I looked down at his right leg. He hadn’t been stung⁠—if he had, he wouldn’t be breathing now⁠—but he had been squirted, and there were a couple of yellow stains on the cloth of his trouser leg. I told him to hold still, used my left hand to pull the cloth away from his leg, and got out my knife and flipped it open with the other hand, cutting away the poisoned cloth and dropping it on the dead snail.</p>
			<p>Murell started making an outcry about cutting up his trousers, and said he could have had them cleaned. Bish Ware, coming up, told him to stop talking like an imbecile.</p>
			<p>“No cleaner would touch them, and even if they were cleaned, some of the poison would remain in the fabric. Then, the next time you were caught in the rain with a scratch on your leg, Walt, here, would write you one of his very nicest obituaries.”</p>
			<p>Then he turned to the cop, who was gabbling into his belt radio, and said: “Get an ambulance, quick. Possible case of tread-snail skin poisoning.” A moment later, looking at Murell’s leg, he added, “Omit ‘possible.’ ”</p>
			<p>There were a couple of little spots on Murell’s skin that were beginning to turn raw-liver color. The raw poison hadn’t gotten into his blood, but some of it, with impurities, had filtered through the cloth, and he’d absorbed enough of it through his skin to make him seriously ill. The cop jabbered some more into the radio, and the laborer with the lifter brought it and let it down, and Murell sat down on his luggage. Tom lit a cigarette and gave it to him, and told him to remain perfectly still. In a couple of minutes, an ambulance was coming, its siren howling.</p>
			<p>The pilot and his helper were both jackleg medics, at least as far as first aid. They gave him a drink out of a flask, smeared a lot of gunk on the spots and slapped plasters over them, and helped him into the ambulance, after I told him we’d take his things to the <i>Times</i> building.</p>
			<p>By this time, between the shot and the siren, quite a crowd had gathered, and everybody was having a nice little recrimination party. The labor foreman was chewing the cop out. The warehouse superintendent was chewing him out. And somebody from the general superintendent’s office was chewing out everybody indiscriminately, and at the same time mentioning to me that <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Fieschi, the superintendent, would be very much pleased if the <i>Times</i> didn’t mention the incident at all. I told him that was editorial policy, and to talk to Dad about it. Nobody had any idea how the thing had gotten in, but that wasn’t much of a mystery. The Bottom Level is full of things like that; they can stay active all the time because the temperature is constant. I supposed that eventually they’d pick the dumbest day laborer in the place and make him the patsy.</p>
			<p>Tom stood watching the ambulance whisk Murell off, dithering in indecision. The poisoning of Murell seemed like an unexpected blow to him. That fitted what I’d begun to think. Finally, he motioned the laborer to pick up the lifter, and we started off toward where he had parked his jeep, outside the spaceport area.</p>
			<p>Bish walked along with us, drawing his pistol and replacing the fired round in the magazine. I noticed that it was a 10 <abbr>mm</abbr> Colt-Argentine Federation Service, commercial type. There aren’t many of those on Fenris. A lot of 10 <abbr>mm</abbr>’s, but mostly South African Sterbergs or Vickers-Bothas, or Mars-Consolidated Police Specials. Mine, which I wasn’t carrying at the moment, was a Sterberg 7.7 <abbr>mm</abbr> Olympic Match.</p>
			<p>“You know,” he said, sliding the gun back under his coat, “I would be just as well pleased as <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Fieschi if this didn’t get any publicity. If you do publish anything about it, I wish you’d minimize my own part in it. As you have noticed, I have some slight proficiency with lethal hardware. This I would prefer not to advertise. I can usually avoid trouble, but when I can’t, I would like to retain the advantage of surprise.”</p>
			<p>We all got into the jeep. Tom, not too graciously, offered to drop Bish wherever he was going. Bish said he was going to the <i>Times</i>, so Tom lifted the jeep and cut in the horizontal drive. We got into a busy one-way aisle, crowded with lorries hauling foodstuffs to the refrigeration area. He followed that for a short distance, and then turned off into a dimly lighted, disused area.</p>
			<p>Before long, I began noticing stacks of tallow-wax, put up in the regular outside sausage skins but without the Coop markings. They just had the names of hunter-ships⁠—<i>Javelin</i>, <i>Bulldog</i>, <i>Helldiver</i>, <i>Slasher</i>, and so on.</p>
			<p>“What’s that stuff doing in here?” I asked. “It’s a long way from the docks, and a long way from the spaceport.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, just temporary storage,” Tom said. “It hasn’t been checked in with the Coop yet.”</p>
			<p>That wasn’t any answer⁠—or maybe it was. I let it go at that. Then we came to an open space about fifty feet square. There was a jeep, with a 7 <abbr>mm</abbr> machine gun mounted on it, and half a dozen men in boat-clothes were playing cards at a table made out of empty ammunition boxes. I noticed they were all wearing pistols, and when a couple of them saw us, they got up and grabbed rifles. Tom let down and got out of the jeep, going over and talking with them for a few minutes. What he had to tell them didn’t seem to bring any noticeable amount of sunlight into their lives. After a while he came back, climbed in at the controls, and lifted the jeep again.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
