<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Vigilantes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-15" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Vigilantes</h2>
			<p>When the <i>Pequod</i> surfaced under the city roof, I saw what was cooking. There were twenty or more ships, either on the concrete docks or afloat in the pools. The waterfront was crowded with men in boat clothes, forming little knots and breaking up to join other groups, all milling about talking excitedly. Most of them were armed; not just knives and pistols, which is normal costume, but heavy rifles or submachine guns. Down to the left, there was a commotion and people were getting out of the way as a dozen men come pushing through, towing a contragravity skid with a 50 <abbr>mm</abbr> ship’s gun on it. I began not liking the looks of things, and Glenn Murell, who had come up from his nap below, was liking it even less. He’d come to Fenris to buy tallow-wax, not to fight a civil war. I didn’t want any of that stuff, either. Getting rid of Ravick, Hallstock and Belsher would come under the head of civic improvements, but towns are rarely improved by having battles fought in them.</p>
			<p><i>Maybe I should have played dumb and waited till I’d talked to Dad face to face, before making any statements about what had happened on the <i>Javelin</i></i>, I thought. Then I shrugged that off. From the minute the <i>Javelin</i> had failed to respond to Dad’s screen-call and the general call had gone out to the hunter-fleet, everybody had been positive of what had happened. It was too much like the loss of the <i>Claymore</i>, which had made Ravick president of the Coop.</p>
			<p>Port Sandor had just gotten all of Steve Ravick that anybody could take. They weren’t going to have any more of him, and that was all there was to it.</p>
			<p>Joe Kivelson was grumbling about his broken arm; that meant that when a fight started, he could only go in swinging with one fist, and that would cut the fun in half. Another reason why Joe is a wretched shot is that he doesn’t like pistols. They’re a little too impersonal to suit him. They weren’t for Oscar Fujisawa; he had gotten a Mars-Consolidated Police Special out of the chart-table drawer and put it on, and he was loading cartridges into a couple of spare clips. Down on the main deck, the gunner was serving out small arms, and there was an acrimonious argument because everybody wanted a chopper and there weren’t enough choppers to go around. Oscar went over to the ladder head and shouted down at them.</p>
			<p>“Knock off the argument, down there; you people are all going to stay on the ship. I’m going up to the <i>Times</i>; as soon as I’m off, float her out into the inner channel and keep her afloat, and don’t let anybody aboard you’re not sure of.”</p>
			<p>“That where we’re going?” Joe Kivelson asked.</p>
			<p>“Sure. That’s the safest place in town for <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Murell and I want to find out exactly what’s going on here.”</p>
			<p>“Well, here; you don’t need to put me in storage,” Murell protested. “I can take care of myself.”</p>
			<p><i>Add, Famous Last Words</i>, I thought.</p>
			<p>“I’m sure of it, but we can’t take any chances,” Oscar told him. “Right now, you are Fenris’s Indispensable Man. If you’re not around to buy tallow-wax, Ravick’s won the war.”</p>
			<p>Oscar and Murell and Joe and Tom Kivelson and I went down into the boat; somebody opened the port and we floated out and lifted onto the Second Level Down. There was a fringe of bars and cafés and dance halls and outfitters and ship chandlers for a couple of blocks back, and then we ran into the warehouse district. Oscar ran up town to a vehicle shaft above the Times Building, careful to avoid the neighborhood of Hunters’ Hall or the Municipal Building.</p>
			<p>There was a big crowd around the <i>Times</i>, mostly business district people and quite a few women. They were mostly out on the street and inside the street-floor vehicle port. Not a disorderly crowd, but I noticed quite a few rifles and submachine guns. As we slipped into the vehicle port, they recognized the <i>Pequod’s</i> boat, and there was a rush after it. We had trouble getting down without setting it on anybody, and more trouble getting out of it. They were all friendly⁠—too friendly for comfort. They began cheering us as soon as they saw us.</p>
			<p>Oscar got Joe Kivelson, with his arm in a sling, out in front where he could be seen, and began shouting: “Please make way; this man’s been injured. Please don’t crowd; we have an injured man here.” The crowd began shoving back, and in the rear I could hear them taking it up: “Joe Kivelson; he’s been hurt. They’re carrying Joe Kivelson off.” That made Joe curse a blue streak, and somebody said, “Oh, he’s been hurt real bad; just listen to him!”</p>
			<p>When we got up to the editorial floor, Dad and Bish Ware and a few others were waiting at the elevator for us. Bish was dressed as he always was, in his conservative black suit, with the organic opal glowing in his neckcloth. Dad had put a coat on over his gun. Julio was wearing two pistols and a knife a foot long. There was a big crowd in the editorial office⁠—ships’ officers, merchants, professional people. I noticed Sigurd Ngozori, the banker, and Professor Hartzenbosch⁠—he was wearing a pistol, too, rather self-consciously⁠—and the Zen Buddhist priest, who evidently had something under his kimono. They all greeted us enthusiastically and shook hands with us. I noticed that Joe Kivelson was something less than comfortable about shaking hands with Bish Ware. The fact that Bish had started the search for the <i>Javelin</i> that had saved our lives didn’t alter the opinion Joe had formed long ago that Bish was just a worthless old souse. Joe’s opinions are all collapsium-plated and impervious to outside influence.</p>
			<p>I got Bish off to one side as we were going into the editorial room.</p>
			<p>“How did you get onto it?” I asked.</p>
			<p>He chuckled deprecatingly. “No trick at all,” he said. “I just circulated and bought drinks for people. The trouble with Ravick’s gang, it’s an army of mercenaries. They’ll do anything for the price of a drink, and as long as my rich uncle stays solvent, I always have the price of a drink. In the five years I’ve spent in this Garden Spot of the Galaxy, I’ve learned some pretty surprising things about Steve Ravick’s operations.”</p>
			<p>“Well, surely, nobody was going around places like Martian Joe’s or One Eye Swanson’s boasting that they’d put a time bomb aboard the <i>Javelin</i>,” I said.</p>
			<p>“It came to pretty nearly that,” Bish said. “You’d be amazed at how careless people who’ve had their own way for a long time can get. For instance, I’ve known for some time that Ravick has spies among the crews of a lot of hunter-ships. I tried, a few times, to warn some of these captains, but except for Oscar Fujisawa and Corkscrew Finnegan, none of them would listen to me. It wasn’t that they had any doubt that Ravick would do that; they just wouldn’t believe that any of their crew were traitors.</p>
			<p>“I’ve suspected this Devis for a long time, and I’ve spoken to Ramón Llewellyn about him, but he just let it go in one ear and out the other. For one thing, Devis always has more money to spend than his share of the <i>Javelin</i> take would justify. He’s the showoff type; always buying drinks for everybody and playing the big shot. Claims to win it gambling, but all the times I’ve ever seen him gambling, he’s been losing.</p>
			<p>“I knew about this hoard of wax we saw the day Murell came in for some time. I always thought it was being held out to squeeze a better price out of Belsher and Ravick. Then this friend of mine with whom I was talking aboard the <i>Peenemünde</i> mentioned that Murell seemed to know more about the tallow-wax business than about literary matters, and after what happened at the meeting and afterward, I began putting two and two together. When I crashed that party at Hunters’ Hall, I heard a few things, and they all added up.</p>
			<p>“And then, about thirty hours after the Javelin left port, I was in the Happy Haven, and who should I see, buying drinks for the house, but Al Devis. I let him buy me one, and he told me he’d strained his back hand-lifting a power-unit cartridge. A square dance got started a little later, and he got into it. His back didn’t look very strained to me. And then I heard a couple of characters in One Eye Swanson’s betting that the <i>Javelin</i> would never make port again.”</p>
			<p>I knew what had happened from then on. If it hadn’t been for Bish Ware, we’d still be squatting around a fire down on the coast of Hermann Reuch’s Land till it got too cold to cut wood, and then we’d freeze. I mentioned that, but Bish just shrugged it off and suggested we go on in and see what was happening inside.</p>
			<p>“Where is Al Devis?” I asked. “A lot of people want to talk to him.”</p>
			<p>“I know they do. I want to get to him first, while he’s still in condition to do some talking of his own. But he just dropped out of sight, about the time your father started calling the <i>Javelin</i>.”</p>
			<p>“Ah!” I drew a finger across under my chin, and mentioned the class of people who tell no tales. Bish shook his head slowly.</p>
			<p>“I doubt it,” he said. “Not unless it was absolutely necessary. That sort of thing would have a discouraging effect the next time Ravick wanted a special job done. I’m pretty sure he isn’t at Hunters’ Hall, but he’s hiding somewhere.”</p>
			<p>Joe Kivelson had finished telling what had happened aboard the <i>Javelin</i> when we joined the main crowd, and everybody was talking about what ought to be done with Steve Ravick. Oddly enough, the most bloodthirsty were the banker and the professor. Well, maybe it wasn’t so odd. They were smart enough to know what Steve Ravick was really doing to Port Sandor, and it hurt them as much as it did the hunters. Dad and Bish seemed to be the only ones present who weren’t in favor of going down to Hunters’ Hall right away and massacring everybody in it, and then doing the same at the Municipal Building.</p>
			<p>“That’s what I say!” Joe Kivelson was shouting. “Let’s go clean out both rats’ nests. Why, there must be a thousand hunter-ship men at the waterfront, and look how many people in town who want to help. We got enough men to eat Hunters’ Hall whole.”</p>
			<p>“You’ll find it slightly inedible, Joe,” Bish told him. “Ravick has about thirty men of his own and fifteen to twenty city police. He has at least four 50 <abbr>mm</abbr>’s on the landing stage above, and he has half a dozen heavy machine guns and twice that many light 7 <abbr>mm</abbr>’s.”</p>
			<p>“Bish is right,” somebody else said. “They have the vehicle port on the street level barricaded, and they have the two floors on the level below sealed off. We got men all around it and nobody can get out, but if we try to blast our way in, it’s going to cost us like Nifflheim.”</p>
			<p>“You mean you’re just going to sit here and talk about it and not do anything?” Joe demanded.</p>
			<p>“We’re going to do something, Joe,” Dad told him. “But we’ve got to talk about what we’re going to do, and how we’re going to do it, or it’ll be us who’ll get wiped out.”</p>
			<p>“Well, we’ll have to decide on what it’ll be, pretty quick,” Mohandas Gandhi Feinberg said.</p>
			<p>“What are things like at the Municipal Building?” Oscar Fujisawa asked. “You say Ravick has fifteen to twenty city cops at Hunters’ Hall. Where are the rest of them? That would only be five to ten.”</p>
			<p>“At the Municipal Building,” Bish said. “Hallstock’s holed up there, trying to pretend that nothing out of the ordinary is happening.”</p>
			<p>“Good. Let’s go to the Municipal Building, first,” Oscar said. “Take a couple of hundred men, make a lot of noise, shoot out a few windows and all yell, ‘Hang Mort Hallstock!’ loud enough, and he’ll recall the cops he has at Hunters’ Hall to save his own neck. Then the rest of us can make a quick rush and take Hunters’ Hall.”</p>
			<p>“We’ll have to keep our main force around Hunters’ Hall while we’re demonstrating at the Municipal Building,” Corkscrew Finnegan said. “We can’t take a chance on Ravick’s getting away.”</p>
			<p>“I couldn’t care less whether he gets away or not,” Oscar said. “I don’t want Steve Ravick’s blood. I just want him out of the Cooperative, and if he runs out from it now, he’ll never get back in.”</p>
			<p>“You want him, and you want him alive,” Bish Ware said. “Ravick has close to four million sols banked on Terra. Every millisol of that’s money he’s stolen from the monster-hunters of this planet, through the Cooperative. If you just take him out and string him up, you’ll have the Nifflheim of a time getting hold of any of it.”</p>
			<p>That made sense to all the ship captains, even Joe Kivelson, after Dad reminded him of how much the salvage job on the <i>Javelin</i> was going to cost. It took Sigurd Ngozori a couple of minutes to see the point, but then, hanging Steve Ravick wasn’t going to cost the Fidelity &amp; Trust Company anything.</p>
			<p>“Well, this isn’t my party,” Glenn Murell said, “but I’m too much of a businessman to see how watching somebody kick on the end of a rope is worth four million sols.”</p>
			<p>“Four million sols,” Bish said, “and wondering, the rest of your lives, whether it was justice or just murder.”</p>
			<p>The Buddhist priest looked at him, a trifle startled. After all, he was the only clergyman in the crowd; he ought to have thought of that, instead of this outrageous mock-bishop.</p>
			<p>“I think it’s a good scheme,” Dad said. “Don’t mass any more men around Hunters’ Hall than necessary. You don’t want the police to be afraid to leave when Hallstock calls them in to help him at Municipal Building.”</p>
			<p>Bish Ware rose. “I think I’ll see what I can do at Hunters’ Hall, in the meantime,” he said. “I’m going to see if there’s some way in from the First or Second Level Down. Walt, do you still have that sleep-gas gadget of yours?”</p>
			<p>I nodded. It was, ostensibly, nothing but an oversized pocket lighter, just the sort of a thing a gadget-happy kid would carry around. It worked perfectly as a lighter, too, till you pushed in on a little gismo on the side. Then, instead of producing a flame, it squirted out a small jet of sleep gas. It would knock out a man; it would almost knock out a Zarathustra veldtbeest. I’d bought it from a spaceman on the <i>Cape Canaveral</i>. I’d always suspected that he’d stolen it on Terra, because it was an expensive little piece of work, but was I going to ride a bicycle six hundred and fifty light-years to find out who it belonged to? One of the chemists’ shops at Port Sandor made me up some fills for it, and while I had never had to use it, it was a handy thing to have in some of the places I had to follow stories into, and it wouldn’t do anybody any permanent damage, the way a gun would.</p>
			<p>“Yes; it’s down in my room. I’ll get it for you,” I said.</p>
			<p>“Be careful, Bish,” Dad said. “That gang would kill you sooner than look at you.”</p>
			<p>“Who, me?” Bish staggered into a table and caught hold of it. “Who’d wanna hurt me? I’m just good ol’ Bish Ware. <i>Good</i> ol’ Bish! nobody hurt him; he’sh everybody’s friend.” He let go of the table and staggered into a chair, upsetting it. Then he began to sing:</p>
			<div class="poem">
				<div class="stanza">
					<span class="i0">“<i>Come all ye hardy spacemen, and harken while I tell</i><br/></span>
					<span class="i0"><i>Of fluorine-tainted Nifflheim, the Planetary Hell.</i>”<br/></span>
				</div>
			</div>
			<p>Involuntarily, I began clapping my hands. It was a superb piece of acting⁠—Bish Ware sober playing Bish Ware drunk, and that’s not an easy role for anybody to play. Then he picked up the chair and sat down on it.</p>
			<p>“Who do you have around Hunters’ Hall, and how do I get past them?” he asked. “I don’t want a clipful from somebody on my own side.”</p>
			<p>Nip Spazoni got a pencil and a pad of paper and began drawing a plan.</p>
			<p>“This is Second Level Down,” he said. “We have a car here, with a couple of men in it. It’s watching this approach here. And we have a ship’s boat, over here, with three men in it, and a 7 <abbr>mm</abbr> machine gun. And another car⁠—no, a jeep, here. Now, up on the First Level Down, we have two ships’ boats, one here, and one here. The password is ‘Exotic,’ and the countersign is ‘Organics.’ ” He grinned at Murell. “Compliment to your company.”</p>
			<p>“Good enough. I’ll want a bottle of liquor. My breath needs a little touching up, and I may want to offer somebody a drink. If I could get inside that place, there’s no telling what I might be able to do. If one man can get in and put a couple of guards to sleep, an army can get in after him.”</p>
			<p><i>Brother</i>, I thought, <i>if he pulls this one off, he’s in</i>. Nobody around Port Sandor will ever look down on Bish Ware again, not even Joe Kivelson. I began thinking about the detective agency idea again, and wondered if he’d want a junior partner. Ware &amp; Boyd, Planetwide Detective Agency.</p>
			<p>I went down to the floor below with him and got him my lighter gas-projector and a couple of spare fills for it, and found the bottle of Baldur honey-rum that Dad had been sure was around somewhere. I was kind of doubtful about that, and he noticed my hesitation in giving it to him and laughed.</p>
			<p>“Don’t worry, Walt,” he said. “This is strictly for protective coloration⁠—and odoration. I shall be quite sparing with it, I assure you.”</p>
			<p>I shook hands with him, trying not to be too solemn about it, and he went down in the elevator and I went up the stairs to the floor above. By this time, the Port Sandor Vigilance Committee had gotten itself sorted out. The rank-and-file Vigilantes were standing around yacking at one another, and a smaller group⁠—Dad and Sigurd Ngozori and the Reverend Sugitsuma and Oscar and Joe and Corkscrew and Nip and the Mahatma⁠—were in a huddle around Dad’s editorial table, discussing strategy and tactics.</p>
			<p>“Well, we’d better get back to the docks before it starts,” Corkscrew was saying. “No hunter crew will follow anybody but their own ships’ officers.”</p>
			<p>“We’ll have to have somebody the uptown people will follow,” Oscar said. “These people won’t take orders from a woolly-pants hunter captain. How about you, Sigurd?”</p>
			<p>The banker shook his head. “Ralph Boyd’s the man for that,” he said.</p>
			<p>“Ralph’s needed right here; this is <abbr class="initialism">G.H.Q.</abbr>,” Oscar said. “This is a job that’s going to have to be run from one central command. We’ve got to make sure the demonstration against Hallstock and the operation against Hunters’ Hall are synchronized.”</p>
			<p>“I have about a hundred and fifty workmen, and they all have or can get something to shoot with,” another man said. I looked around, and saw that it was Casmir Oughourlian, of Rodriguez &amp; Oughourlian Shipyards. “They’ll follow me, but I’m not too well known uptown.”</p>
			<p>“Hey, Professor Hartzenbosch,” Mohandas Feinberg said. “You’re a respectable-looking duck; you ever have any experience leading a lynch mob?”</p>
			<p>Everybody laughed. So, to his credit, did the professor.</p>
			<p>“I’ve had a lot of experience with children,” the professor said. “Children are all savages. So are lynch mobs. Things that are equal to the same thing are equal to one another. Yes, I’d say so.”</p>
			<p>“All right,” Dad said. “Say I’m Chief of Staff, or something. Oscar, you and Joe and Corkscrew and the rest of you decide who’s going to take overall command of the hunters. Casmir, you’ll command your workmen, and anybody else from the shipyards and engine works and repair shops and so on. Sigurd, you and the Reverend, here, and Professor Hartzenbosch gather up all the uptown people you can. Now, we’ll have to decide on how much force we need to scare Mort Hallstock, and how we’re going to place the main force that will attack Hunters’ Hall.”</p>
			<p>“I think we ought to wait till we see what Bish Ware can do,” Oscar said. “Get our gangs together, and find out where we’re going to put who, but hold off the attack for a while. If he can get inside Hunters’ Hall, we may not even need this demonstration at the Municipal Building.”</p>
			<p>Joe Kivelson started to say something. The rest of his fellow ship captains looked at him severely, and he shut up. Dad kept on jotting down figures of men and 50 <abbr>mm</abbr> guns and vehicles and auto weapons we had available.</p>
			<p>He was still doing it when the fire alarm started.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
