<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Reporter Working</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Reporter Working</h2>
			<p>Bish came over and greeted us solemnly.</p>
			<p>“Good afternoon, gentlemen. Captain Ahab, I believe,” he said, bowing to Tom, who seemed slightly puzzled; the education Tom had been digging out for himself was technical rather than literary. “And <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Pulitzer. Or is it Horace Greeley?”</p>
			<p>“Lord Beaverbrook, your Grace,” I replied. “Have you any little news items for us from your diocese?”</p>
			<p>Bish teetered slightly, getting out a cigar and inspecting it carefully before lighting it.</p>
			<p>“We‑el,” he said carefully, “my diocese is full to the hatch covers with sinners, but that’s scarcely news.” He turned to Tom. “One of your hands on the <i>Javelin</i> got into a fight in Martian Joe’s, a while ago. Lumped the other man up pretty badly.” He named the Javelin crewman, and the man who had been pounded. The latter was one of Steve Ravick’s goons. “But not fatally, I regret to say,” Bish added. “The local Gestapo are looking for your man, but he made it aboard Nip Spazoni’s <i>Bulldog</i>, and by this time he’s halfway to Hermann Reuch’s Land.”</p>
			<p>“Isn’t Nip going to the meeting, tonight?” Tom asked.</p>
			<p>Bish shook his head. “Nip is a peace-loving man. He has a well-founded suspicion that peace is going to be in short supply around Hunters’ Hall this evening. You know, of course, that Leo Belsher’s coming in on the <i>Peenemünde</i> and will be there to announce another price cut. The new price, I understand, will be thirty-five centisols a pound.”</p>
			<p><i>Seven hundred sols a ton</i>, I thought; <i>why, that would barely pay ship expenses</i>.</p>
			<p>“Where did you get that?” Tom asked, a trifle sharply.</p>
			<p>“Oh, I have my spies and informers,” Bish said. “And even if I hadn’t, it would figure. The only reason Leo Belsher ever comes to this Eden among planets is to negotiate a new contract, and who ever heard of a new contract at a higher price?”</p>
			<p>That had all happened before, a number of times. When Steve Ravick had gotten control of the Hunters’ Cooperative, the price of tallow-wax, on the loading floor at Port Sandor spaceport, had been fifteen hundred sols a ton. As far as Dad and I could find out, it was still bringing the same price on Terra as it always had. It looked to us as if Ravick and Leo Belsher, who was the Coop representative on Terra, and Mort Hallstock were simply pocketing the difference. I was just as sore about what was happening as anybody who went out in the hunter-ships. Tallow-wax is our only export. All our imports are paid for with credit from the sale of wax.</p>
			<p>It isn’t really wax, and it isn’t tallow. It’s a growth on the Jarvis’s sea-monster; there’s a layer of it under the skin, and around organs that need padding. An average-sized monster, say a hundred and fifty feet long, will yield twelve to fifteen tons of it, and a good hunter kills about ten monsters a year. Well, at the price Belsher and Ravick were going to cut from, that would run a little short of a hundred and fifty thousand sols for a year. If you say it quick enough and don’t think, that sounds like big money, but the upkeep and supplies for a hunter-ship are big money, too, and what’s left after that’s paid off is divided, on a graduated scale, among ten to fifteen men, from the captain down. A hunter-boat captain, even a good one like Joe Kivelson, won’t make much more in a year than Dad and I make out of the <i>Times</i>.</p>
			<p>Chemically, tallow-wax isn’t like anything else in the known Galaxy. The molecules are huge; they can be seen with an ordinary optical microscope, and a microscopically visible molecule is a curious-looking object, to say the least. They use the stuff to treat fabric for protective garments. It isn’t anything like <i>collapsium</i>, of course, but a suit of waxed coveralls weighing only a couple of pounds will stop as much radiation as half an inch of lead.</p>
			<p>Back when they were getting fifteen hundred a ton, the hunters had been making good money, but that was before Steve Ravick’s time.</p>
			<p>It was slightly before mine, too. Steve Ravick had showed up on Fenris about twelve years ago. He’d had some money, and he’d bought shares in a couple of hunter-ships and staked a few captains who’d had bad luck and got them in debt to him. He also got in with Morton Hallstock, who controlled what some people were credulous enough to take for a government here. Before long, he was secretary of the Hunters’ Cooperative. Old Simon MacGregor, who had been president then, was a good hunter, but he was no businessman. He came to depend very heavily on Ravick, up till his ship, the <i>Claymore</i>, was lost with all hands down in Fitzwilliam Straits. I think that was a time bomb in the magazine, but I have a low and suspicious mind. Professor Hartzenbosch has told me so repeatedly. After that, Steve Ravick was president of the Coop. He immediately began a drive to increase the membership. Most of the new members had never been out in a hunter-ship in their lives, but they could all be depended on to vote the way he wanted them to.</p>
			<p>First, he jacked the price of wax up, which made everybody but the wax buyers happy. Everybody who wasn’t already in the Coop hurried up and joined. Then he negotiated an exclusive contract with Kapstaad Chemical Products, <abbr>Ltd.</abbr>, in South Africa, by which they agreed to take the entire output for the Coop. That ended competitive wax buying, and when there was nobody to buy the wax but Kapstaad, you had to sell it through the Cooperative or you didn’t sell it at all. After that, the price started going down. The Cooperative, for which read Steve Ravick, had a sales representative on Terra, Leo Belsher. He wrote all the contracts, collected all the money, and split with Ravick. What was going on was pretty generally understood, even if it couldn’t be proven, but what could anybody do about it?</p>
			<p>Maybe somebody would try to do something about it at the meeting this evening. I would be there to cover it. I was beginning to wish I owned a bulletproof vest.</p>
			<p>Bish and Tom were exchanging views on the subject, some of them almost printable. I had my eyes to my binoculars, watching the tugs go up to meet the <i>Peenemünde</i>.</p>
			<p>“What we need for Ravick, Hallstock and Belsher,” Tom was saying, “is about four fathoms of harpoon line apiece, and something to haul up to.”</p>
			<p>That kind of talk would have shocked Dad. He is very strong for law and order, even when there is no order and the law itself is illegal. I’d always thought there was a lot of merit in what Tom was suggesting. Bish Ware seemed to have his doubts, though.</p>
			<p>“Mmm, no; there ought to be some better way of doing it than that.”</p>
			<p>“Can you think of one?” Tom challenged.</p>
			<p>I didn’t hear Bish’s reply. By that time, the tugs were almost to the ship. I grabbed up the telephoto camera and aimed it. It has its own power unit, and transmits directly. In theory, I could tune it to the telecast station and put what I was getting right on the air, and what I was doing was transmitting to the <i>Times</i>, to be recorded and ’cast later. Because it’s not a hundred percent reliable, though, it makes its own audiovisual record, so if any of what I was sending didn’t get through, it could be spliced in after I got back.</p>
			<p>I got some footage of the tugs grappling the ship, which was now completely weightless, and pulling her down. Through the finder, I could see that she had her landing legs extended; she looked like a big overfed spider being hauled in by a couple of gnats. I kept the butt of the camera to my shoulder, and whenever anything interesting happened, I’d squeeze the trigger. The first time I ever used a real submachine gun had been to kill a blue slasher that had gotten into one of the ship pools at the waterfront. I used three one-second bursts, and threw bits of slasher all over the place, and everybody wondered how I’d gotten the practice.</p>
			<p>A couple more boats, pushers, went up to help hold the ship against the wind, and by that time she was down to a thousand feet, which was half her diameter. I switched from the shoulder-stock telephoto to the big tripod job, because this was the best part of it. The ship was weightless, of course, but she had mass and an awful lot of it. If anybody goofed getting her down, she’d take the side of the landing pit out, and about ten percent of the population of Fenris, including the ace reporter for the Times, along with it.</p>
			<p>At the same time, some workmen and a couple of spaceport cops had appeared, taken out a section of railing and put in a gate. The <i>Peenemünde</i> settled down, turned slowly to get her port in line with the gate, and lurched off contragravity and began running out a bridge to the promenade. I got some shots of that, and then began packing my stuff back in the hamper.</p>
			<p>“You going aboard?” Tom asked. “Can I come along? I can carry some of your stuff and let on I’m your helper.”</p>
			<p><i>Glory be</i>, I thought; <i>I finally got that apprentice</i>.</p>
			<p>“Why, sure,” I said. “You tow the hamper; I’ll carry this.” I got out what looked like a big camera case and slung it over my shoulder. “But you’ll have to take me out on the <i>Javelin</i>, sometime, and let me shoot a monster.”</p>
			<p>He said it was a deal, and we shook on it. Then I had another idea.</p>
			<p>“Bish, suppose you come with us, too,” I said. “After all, Tom and I are just a couple of kids. If you’re with us, it’ll look a lot more big-paperish.”</p>
			<p>That didn’t seem to please Tom too much. Bish shook his head, though, and Tom brightened.</p>
			<p>“I’m dreadfully sorry, Walt,” Bish said. “But I’m going aboard, myself, to see a friend who is en route through to Odin. A <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Watson; I have not seen him for years.”</p>
			<p>I’d caught that name, too, when we’d gotten the passenger list. <abbr>Dr.</abbr> John Watson. Now, I know that all sorts of people call themselves Doctor, and Watson and John aren’t too improbable a combination, but I’d read <i>Sherlock Holmes</i> long ago, and the name had caught my attention. And this was the first, to my knowledge, that Bish Ware had ever admitted to any off-planet connections.</p>
			<p>We started over to the gate. Hallstock and Ravick were ahead of us. So was Sigurd Ngozori, the president of the Fidelity &amp; Trust, carrying a heavy briefcase and accompanied by a character with a submachine gun, and Adolf Lautier and Professor Hartzenbosch. There were a couple of spaceport cops at the gate, in olive-green uniforms that looked as though they had been sprayed on, and steel helmets. I wished we had a city police force like that. They were Odin Dock &amp; Shipyard Company men, all former Federation Regular Army or Colonial Constabulary. The spaceport wasn’t part of Port Sandor, or even Fenris; the Odin Dock &amp; Shipyard Company was the government there, and it was run honestly and efficiently.</p>
			<p>They knew me, and when they saw Tom towing my hamper they cracked a few jokes about the new <i>Times</i> cub reporter and waved us through. I thought they might give Bish an argument, but they just nodded and let him pass, too. We all went out onto the bridge, and across the pit to the equator of the two-thousand-foot globular ship.</p>
			<p>We went into the main lounge, and the captain introduced us to <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Glenn Murell. He was fairly tall, with light gray hair, prematurely so, I thought, and a pleasant, noncommittal face. I’d have pegged him for a businessman. Well, I suppose authoring is a business, if that was his business. He shook hands with us, and said:</p>
			<p>“Aren’t you rather young to be a newsman?”</p>
			<p>I started to burn on that. I get it all the time, and it burns me all the time, but worst of all on the job. Maybe I am only going-on-eighteen, but I’m doing a man’s work, and I’m doing it competently.</p>
			<p>“Well, they grow up young on Fenris, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Murell,” Captain Marshak earned my gratitude by putting in. “Either that or they don’t live to grow up.”</p>
			<p>Murell unhooked his <i>memophone</i> and repeated the captain’s remark into it. Opening line for one of his chapters. Then he wanted to know if I’d been born on Fenris. I saw I was going to have to get firm with <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Murell, right away. The time to stop that sort of thing is as soon as it starts.</p>
			<p>“Who,” I wanted to know, “is interviewing whom? You’ll have at least five hundred hours till the next possible ship out of here; I only have two and a half to my next deadline. You want coverage, don’t you? The more publicity you get, the easier your own job’s going to be.”</p>
			<p>Then I introduced Tom, carefully giving the impression that while I handled all ordinary assignments, I needed help to give him the full VIP treatment. We went over to a quiet corner and sat down, and the interview started.</p>
			<p>The camera case I was carrying was a snare and a deceit. Everybody knows that reporters use recorders in interviews, but it never pays to be too obtrusive about them, or the subject gets recorder-conscious and stiffens up. What I had was better than a recorder; it was a recording radio. Like the audiovisuals, it not only transmitted in to the <i>Times</i>, but made a recording as insurance against transmission failure. I reached into a slit on the side and snapped on the switch while I was fumbling with a pencil and notebook with the other hand, and started by asking him what had decided him to do a book about Fenris.</p>
			<p>After that, I fed a question every now and then to keep him running, and only listened to every third word. The radio was doing a better job than I possibly could have. At the same time, I was watching Steve Ravick, Morton Hallstock and Leo Belsher at one side of the room, and Bish Ware at the other. Bish was within ear-straining range. Out of the corner of my eye, I saw another man, younger in appearance and looking like an Army officer in civvies, approach him.</p>
			<p>“My dear Bishop!” this man said in greeting.</p>
			<p>As far as I knew, that nickname had originated on Fenris. I made a mental note of that.</p>
			<p>“How are you?” Bish replied, grasping the other’s hand. “You have been in Afghanistan, I perceive.”</p>
			<p>That did it. I told you I was an old <i>Sherlock Holmes</i> reader; I recognized that line. This meeting was prearranged, neither of them had ever met before, and they needed a recognition code. Then I returned to Murell, and decided to wonder about Bish Ware and “<abbr>Dr.</abbr> Watson” later.</p>
			<p>It wasn’t long before I was noticing a few odd things about Murell, too, which confirmed my original suspicions of him. He didn’t have the firm name of his alleged publishers right, he didn’t know what a literary agent was and, after claiming to have been a newsman, he consistently used the expression “news service.” I know, everybody says that⁠—everybody but newsmen. They always call a news service a “paper,” especially when talking to other newsmen.</p>
			<p>Of course, there isn’t any paper connected with it, except the pad the editor doodles on. What gets to the public is photoprint, out of a <i>teleprinter</i>. As small as our circulation is, we have four or five hundred of them in Port Sandor and around among the small settlements in the archipelago, and even on the mainland. Most of them are in bars and cafés and cigar stores and places like that, operated by a coin in a slot and leased by the proprietor, and some of the big hunter-ships like Joe Kivelson’s <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Javelin</i> and Nip Spazoni’s <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Bulldog</i> have them.</p>
			<p>But long ago, back in the First Centuries, Pre-Atomic and Atomic Era, they were actually printed on paper, and the copies distributed and sold. They used printing presses as heavy as a spaceship’s engines. That’s why we still call ourselves the Press. Some of the old papers on Terra, like <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">La Prensa</i> in Buenos Aires, and the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Melbourne Times</i>, which used to be the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">London Times</i> when there was still a London, were printed that way originally.</p>
			<p>Finally I got through with my interview, and then shot about fifteen minutes of audiovisual, which would be cut to five for the ’cast. By this time Bish and “<abbr>Dr.</abbr> Watson” had disappeared, I supposed to the ship’s bar, and Ravick and his accomplices had gotten through with their conspiracy to defraud the hunters. I turned Murell over to Tom, and went over to where they were standing together. I’d put away my pencil and pad long ago with Murell; now I got them out ostentatiously as I approached.</p>
			<p>“Good day, gentlemen,” I greeted them. “I’m representing the Port Sandor <i>Times</i>.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, run along, sonny; we haven’t time to bother with you,” Hallstock said.</p>
			<p>“But I want to get a story from <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Belsher,” I began.</p>
			<p>“Well, come back in five or six years, when you’re dry behind the ears, and you can get it,” Ravick told me.</p>
			<p>“Our readers aren’t interested in the condition of my ears,” I said sweetly. “They want to read about the price of tallow-wax. What’s this about another price cut? To thirty-five centisols a pound, I understand.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, Steve, the young man’s from the news service, and his father will publish whatever he brings home,” Belsher argued. “We’d better give him something.” He turned to me. “I don’t know how this got out, but it’s quite true,” he said. He had a long face, like a horse’s. At least, he looked like pictures of horses I’d seen. As he spoke, he pulled it even longer and became as doleful as an undertaker at a ten-thousand-sol funeral.</p>
			<p>“The price has gone down, again. Somebody has developed a synthetic substitute. Of course, it isn’t anywhere near as good as real Fenris tallow-wax, but try and tell the public that. So Kapstaad Chemical is being undersold, and the only way they can stay in business is cut the price they have to pay for wax.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>It went on like that, and this time I had real trouble keeping my anger down. In the first place, I was pretty sure there was no substitute for Fenris tallow-wax, good, bad or indifferent. In the second place, it isn’t sold to the gullible public, it’s sold to equipment manufacturers who have their own test engineers and who have to keep their products up to legal safety standards. He didn’t know this balderdash of his was going straight to the <i>Times</i> as fast as he spouted it; he thought I was taking it down in shorthand. I knew exactly what Dad would do with it. He’d put it on telecast in Belsher’s own voice.</p>
			<p>Maybe the monster-hunters would start looking around for a rope, then.</p>
			<p>When I got through listening to him, I went over and got a short audiovisual of Captain Marshak of the <i>Peenemünde</i> for the ’cast, and then I rejoined Tom and Murell.</p>
			<p>“<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Murell says he’s staying with you at the <i>Times</i>,” Tom said. He seemed almost as disappointed as Professor Hartzenbosch. I wondered, for an incredulous moment, if Tom had been trying to kidnap Murell away from me. “He wants to go out on the <i>Javelin</i> with us for a monster-hunt.”</p>
			<p>“Well, that’s swell!” I said. “You can pay off on that promise to take me monster-hunting, too. Right now, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Murell is my big story.” I reached into the front pocket of my “camera” case for the handphone, to shift to two-way. “I’ll call the <i>Times</i> and have somebody come up with a car to get us and <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Murell’s luggage.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I have a car. Jeep, that is,” Tom said. “It’s down on the Bottom Level. We can use that.”</p>
			<p>Funny place to leave a car. And I was sure that he and Murell had come to some kind of an understanding, while I was being lied to by Belsher. I didn’t get it. There was just too much going on around me that I didn’t get, and me, I’m supposed to be the razor-sharp newshawk who gets everything.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
